process How Time for Semantic Climate When Time for Climate Academy Entry interview to assess AI needs and questions, and develop a project idea. Climate Academy, Semantic Climate meet with Solana and Renata 1 hour Done 1 hour Reviewing the project plan, roles, outputs, fees and coming to agreement. Climate Academy, Semantic Climate review document from Solana 2 hours March 2 hours Online questionnaire about AI for Climate Academy participants Open Knowledge sends - March 1 hour Open Knowledge announces the collaboration publicly and welcomes Open Knowledge published a blog post 30 min March 30 min 9
Docusign Envelope ID: DCFB907F-1A2A-4631-9EF8-A08DD66AE619
okfn.org
community input. Defi ning ChatBot Strategy: Climate Academy and Semantic Climate scope out the needs and key choices + decisions needed. Semantic Climate leads, Open Knowledge supports 1 day March 2 hours Online workshop: To bring together advisors/ practitioners who can discuss design decisions and provide feedback. Semantic Climate leads, Open Knowledge helps suggest people 3 days Early April (half day workshop) 2 hours Prototype Development: Based on the design choices identifi ed in the workshop (incl. sign off on plans from Climate Academy) Semantic Climate builds (Tech advise from PMR) 5-10 days April/May 2 hours Testing & Iteration: We test the bot and report back with refl ections: usefulness of responses; clarity/ reliability of info; user experience/ learning value Semantic Climate leads testing (The prototype will be tested by CA & students in India.)
2-5 days May 1 day Documentation & learning Resource: We convert the learnings into a small course for School of Data. Explain design decisions, tech challenges, governance considerations etc Semantic Climate with Open Knowledge 2 days May 2 hours We conduct an exit survey of Climate Academy participants to measure learning. Open Knowledge sends - May 1 hour
