(scraped from PDF document in contract)

# ANNEX A: The Work

## Catalyst Project (Background) 

Open Knowledge is launching a new initiative to develop workshops and learning resources collaboratively with four social sector organisations in four countries. These will be organisations who are asking crucial questions about the risks and opportunities of data and AI—both for their own work and for their constituents. Their concerns span from technical to the social, and Open Knowledge will help catalyse learning and discussion towards answers, supported by thematic specialists around the world.

AI Learning Labs: “How do we build a Climate Academy Chatbot?”

Open Knowledge, Climate Academy, and Semantic Climate are collaborating on an open learning initiative to answer one specific, challenging question about AI: How do we train a responsible AI chatbot to help counter misinformation about climate change?

### The organization:
Climate Academy is a small but mighty organization that educates young people and media on how to understand climate justice and planetary boundaries.

### The problem:
Distortion and misrepresentation about climate change is prolific in the media and in mainstream AI chatbots. People use AI all the time, but don’t necessarily know how to question what they are told. How can climate educators leverage AI?

### The opportunity:
Climate Academy wishes to disseminate knowledge with a responsible and climate-friendly AI chatbot that can answer questions about climate change using pre-approved literature, datasets and conversational guardrails.

## Output Summary: 
This is what Open Knowledge, Climate Academy, and Semantic Climate commit to between March 13 and May 8, 2026. 

1 A series of discussions (workshop) on the decisions that go into building the chatbot (e.g. what models to use, what climate friendly techniques) involving expert allies and advisors 

2 A working web prototype of a Climate Academy Chatbot, showing curated knowledge based on the Climate Academy book, answering user questions responsibly. 

3 A short text course called “How to build a climate chatbot?” that breaks down the process in simple terms that can be shared and translated via (School of Data School)[https://schoolofdata.org/] 

## Revised process 

How Time for Semantic Climate When Time for Climate Academy Entry interview to assess AI needs and questions, and develop a project idea. Climate Academy, Semantic Climate meet with Solana and Renata 1 hour Done 1 hour Reviewing the project plan, roles, outputs, fees and coming to agreement. Climate Academy, Semantic Climate review document from Solana 2 hours March 2 hours Online questionnaire about AI for Climate Academy participants Open Knowledge sends - March 1 hour Open Knowledge announces the collaboration publicly and welcomes community input. Defi ning ChatBot Strategy: Climate Academy and Semantic Climate scope out the needs and key choices + decisions needed. Semantic Climate leads, Open Knowledge supports 1 day March 2 hours Online workshop: To bring together advisors/ practitioners who can discuss design decisions and provide feedback. Semantic Climate leads, Open Knowledge helps suggest people 3 days Early April (half day workshop) 2 hours Prototype Development: Based on the design choices identifi ed in the workshop (incl. sign off on plans from Climate Academy) Semantic Climate builds (Tech advise from PMR) 5-10 days April/May 2 hours Testing & Iteration: We test the bot and report back with refl ections: usefulness of responses; clarity/ reliability of info; user experience/ learning value Semantic Climate leads testing (The prototype will be tested by CA & students in India.)
2-5 days May 1 day Documentation & learning Resource: We convert the learnings into a small course for School of Data. Explain design decisions, tech challenges, governance considerations etc Semantic Climate with Open Knowledge 2 days May 2 hours We conduct an exit survey of Climate Academy participants to measure learning. Open Knowledge sends - May 1 hour
10
